As of 10/28/2024

	Managed to find where to download PRISM climate data. Downloaded average DAILY temperature data for every 4 by 4k grid into yearly folders from 1981-2019. Can download dewpoint as well. Started work on aggregation:
		1.)Temp files in .bil format, raster data
		2.)Extrapolate temp, transformation matrix, coordinate system, and the bounds
		3.)Mask missing data (stored as-9999), take valid indices 
		4.)Convert valid indices to coordinates 
	Conversion to data frame is infeasible, 1 day of data takes about 15-60 seconds each. 481k rows for one day. Extract relevant info, perform necessary transformations, link to county boundaries and THEN aggregate. 

	Current plan (to be verified by 1 file then by 1 year):
		1.)Loop through every year, aggregate by month, every day
		2.)Aggregate temperature to county: 
			a.)How to determine county borders? use historic county lines? Use address?
			b.) through 31 December 2000, need to find a way to tie out to 2001-2006 (in .shp file)
			c.) If center square point falls into county lines, belongs to county.
			d.) for each county: find weighted average of daily temperature for all grid points within a county, where the values for each grid point are weighted by the inverse of the squared distance from the grid point to the county’s population centroid.
				i.) Centroids only back to 2000

		3.) Calculate daily heat index (will look at other vars first) for each county
			a.) Use similar process in 2.) with dew point to calculate humidity 

	Summary: Have the data(1981-2019), know generally how to work with that type of file. 
	Next Steps: Decide how to aggregate; choose was sorts of calculations to make; tie out metrics 


To do: look for controls

As of 11/4/2024

	Access to SILO for data storage and computing speed almost completed. 

	Wrote script using GeoPandas to aggregate mean temp by count lines in given year. Currently working on general algorithm to classify an extreme heat day. (95th percentile methodology)
	
	General idea:
		-Convert Mean Dew Point and Mean Temperature to Relative Humidity.
		-Use Relative Humidity and Mean Temperature to Calculate Heat Index.
	
	What type of model also plays into this. currently researching climate econometrics. Can be determined later. current focus is on fully finalizing county level aggregation method for mean county temperature. 